So, you've done all of this,
however you've chosen to do
your information architecture,
whether you've just gone saw that let's
get chatGPT to do the whole thing, right?
Or whether you've gone or do some top task
analysis and then what this and that and
the other.
The one thing I do recommend,
however you end up with your information
architect is to test it at the end, right?
You could skip everything I've said so
far make up your own information
architecture and just do this, right?
This is your chance to
validate what you've done.
However you've done it, whether you've
used ChatGPT, made it up, done it
properly, whatever, this is your chance to
make sure that it's not completely broken.
And we do that through tree testing,
right?
So tree testing is super, super simple.
It allows you to test your assumptions and
also if you've done any
of the stuff before, like card sorting or
any of the rest of it.
Those things that were
in the not sure group or
were in the low agreement score group and
you're going,
is it gonna work, etc,
now's your chance to test it, right?
So what we're gonna do?
All right,
let's first of all be clear about the kind
of things we want to test in tree testing.
So three things.
Content with a low agreement score
if we've done card sorting, right?
So if the closed card sorting ended up
with some stuff that you got, it was
a bit ambiguous of where people should put
it, that is a great thing to test for.
Second one is stuff aside to
the not sure category, right?
Great thing to test for but
finally also top tasks that have
been added into a subsection.
So if you've buried one of those
top tasks deep in the site
there's a higher probability people
won't want to find it and so
we want to test for
that so what I will do is.
I will identify which
cards I'm worried about.
Because it's got a low agreement score
because it's in a subsection when it's
a top task or it's in not sure.
I try not to come up with more than about
ten of them because otherwise it becomes
laborious to do.
But I come up with about ten and
then for each one,
I'll write a question that avoids
using the word on the card, right?
So let's say dental care, right?
I would write a question like,
you have to go to a dentist and
you want to know whether you are covered.
Where would you look, right?
So haven't used the word dental care okay?
But I've tried to word it very neutrally.
Again, Chatgpt can help you
with this if you're struggling.
And then that is the question.
So let me show you how you set it up and
it will become clearer.
So first thing you do is you go in and
you create a task, right?
So I put that quick question in right and
matter in this part case.
It's got an example of imagine that
you want to update your credit
card details where would
you find that right?
Great example of a question then what
I do so I create a new tree test
to do that I input the whole
of the sites hierarchy right?
So all of those sections, subsections
the information architecture I've created.
I put all of that in so it knows that.
Then I create each one of my
tasks like the, for example,
the one about dental care or
the credit card details.
And then for each task I set the proper
destination of where they should
be looking, so it knows whether it's
the right or wrong answer, right?
And then we send that out and
we get people to look at it again.
That is the most valuable thing.
If you can only do one thing with
your information architecture,
that is the thing you do, right?
Things you're worried about that
people might not be able to find
create series of questions,
put that out and do that.
And then when you look at the results,
what you're looking for
is it will give you a screen
page like you can see here.
Where for each task is giving you
the success score the directness and
how long it's taking them to do it.
So the success score is fairly obvious
that's could they complete find the piece
of information the directness is did they
go directly to it down the hierarchy.
Or did they wander around
slightly lost before finding it?
And the time is how long
it took them to do it.
So that each time you want to pay
attention to the success score, right?
And if they failed where they ended up,
right?
And that's a critical one.
So you can actually I don't know
whether you probably can't see it, but
basically it tells you
how many people failed.
And you can click on that and it will tell
you where they ended up when they failed.
Right now, that is really valuable
because what you can often do
is one will stand out
way above the others.
I see, everybody's ended up here, right?
And then you can make a decision
either I'm gonna swap it over and
put this content in that section.
Or again, you use cross linking
to redirect people back to where
they're supposed to be,
so that's really useful.
The second thing you're looking for is the
directness and the route that people took.
You wanna make sure people aren't
wandering around too lost,
although a little bit of lostness is fine,
as long as they don't spend too
much of their time doing that.
And it's always good to look at the time
it took people put a complete the task on
average.
So very quickly, what about the problem,
so that you've done a series of 10 tests,
and there are some problem ones there that
you struggle with for whatever reason.
When in most cases,
it's just a matter of cross-linking
to where they should be going, right?
You don't need to throw out your whole
information architecture every time and
go, it didn't work.
I'm doomed.
I have to start again.
Oftentimes it just comes down to, okay, so
if people have gone to that section by
accident, I need to have a prominent
link on that page that sends them
back where they're supposed to be.
Most of the time that will do an answer.
So that's really all I wanna say
on information architecture.
And you can see that there are lots of
opportunities for doing testing and
actually having that being driven by data
rather than politics and opinions and
that kind of stuff.
Start with your information architecture
before you do anything else.
Any prototype any design,
anything else is such a good way to begin
a project because it helps you focus
on and identify those top tasks.
So planning your information architecture
before you do anything else is really,
really beneficial.
And those top tasks can be used to inform
your top level navigation through your
open card sorted.
And then your navigation
can be validated and
expanded through the closed card
sorting and the tree testing.